The Field
    Fieldwork (speculative) 
        Expanded Field (Ian Cook)

        Expanded Field (Rosalind Krauss) (very cool)

            negative space, paiget groups, development of spatial cognition and mapping
            >http://homepages.phonecoop.coop/vamos/work/lecturenotes/sun/LectureNotes/Env4_EnvCog/environmental2.html
            ^^ model can be applied to coming to know a field (city) measured through ability to navigate without a (non mental) map --> stages follow. 
            the same mathemeatical model Krause uses to perorm a logical expansion on the field of sculpture is used in mapping spatial cognition...?!
    
        "The City" as a proper noun problematized (de Certeau)
         The site is not separate from where research is written up → challenging method of travelling a great distance to the field and then returning to institution to write up knowledge from field notes

         being moved/transformed by field (Certeau, Loveless, Acker)
            "Place impels me; it is the actor. Place unfurls around me; it becomes the subject." 132 Lyric Geography by Maleea Acker

Navigation 
    {navigations within a field articulate a framework, a mental map,  - there are multiple ways to connect concepts, multiple pathways to understanding, multiple routes to a destination.process oriented recognizes the navigation as a site of learning}

Slow Scholarship (Mountz et al., Modeen and Biggs)
    Praxis, Process, Presence
   
Bricolage (Roberts, de Certeau, Kincheloe)
    Methodological Eclecticism 
        Lefebvre calls concepts "methodologically utilised categories" 
    Tactics (vs. strategies - de Certeau)
Gleaning
    Collage (of)
Non-linearity (everything here is connected despite the formatting)
     Bricoleur-as-researcher
        Les Roberts on such a person not always aware they’ve embarked upon a project. Connect to Roussell’s concept of immersive cartography to describe unfolding nature of project, ever-changing field informing my perspective and permutations of connections as I go
        geography-research
            bricoleur as researcher being “arguably less governed by an overarching awareness that they are embarked on a ‘project’” but that “The idea that research might be conducted under conditions of aimlessness and without a clear objective in mind does not necessarily mean that it lacks the rigours of ‘accomplishment and execution’ but that much of what is fashioned in the process is contingent on factors that cannot always be foreseen."
                                    (https://
                                        www.mdpi.com/2076-0787/7/2/43)

        >place writings (Cresswell's Maxwell Street), collage, topopoetics, geopoetics, 
    Memory

Orientation/Disorientation
    (dare i include, map)
    Like many colleagues, beginning a graduate program meant moving to a new city, biome, country. I arrived in Vancouver on the unceded lands of Coast Salish First Nations, disoriented.  I graded sixty maps of downtown before I finally ventured there. [insert paragraph from lecture I gave but the contents of which I lost to the cloud pending account recovery on january 9th.]
    
    
    While Google Maps helped me get from A to B, the drive to locate and coordinate precludes disoriented discovery.     

        "It seems as though in the end, maps —the successful ones, the ones that show us where we are and get us from here to there —risk offering only two alternatives. They let us see too much, and hence blind us to what we cannot see, imposing a quiet tyranny of orientation that erases the possibility of disoriented discovery, or they lose sight of all the other things that we ought to see. They omit, according to their conventions, those invisible lines of people, places, and networks that create the most common spaces we live in today." (Laura Kurgan, 16-17 from Close up and at a distance)

    For me, orientation evolved not through memorizing a map but by developing spatial awareness through everyday practices of engaging with the city. 

    hot take: theorizing geography without practicing it is as ******** as a map of vancouver is at describing the city to a newcomer. 
        
        tentative posit: experienctial, practical knowledge has no exchange value

Detour
    Detournement

Derive
    Surrender, "to grasp a rhythm it is necessary to have been _*grasped*_ by it; one must _let oneself_ go, give oneself over, abandon oneself to its duration." 37
    Isvara Pranidhana
    Being Open
Lure, Drive
    Contour
        Affect
Intuition
    time, future pull (navigation/orientation/bearing)
    bearing (compass)

Praxis, Process, Practice 
Writing Geography, actually enacting knowledge production differently (Priti and Emily paper)
    Navigations of everyday life: 
        The importance of place is no secret to geographers, but of those whom I’ve met, few consider their everyday navigations as fieldwork. Following the charge for praxis to extend beyond study and actually enact knowledge production differently ( Narayan and Rosenman 2022) i demonstrate through this project a way of researching where the  field is not a site separate from the desk at which geography is written.
    "The rhythmanalyst will bring about many works himself by renewing the very concept of work" 35 --> challenging what _counts._ 
Practice Based Research
    *praxis based research
Research-Creation (Loveless, Trouman ed., ?Roussell?, )
    “Research-creation follows desire, and builds spaces and contexts that allow time and space to experiment in unpredictable directions… Research creation suggests a mode of knowledge production that does more than simply contribute to existing realms of interdisciplinary and disciplinary data. Instead, it tumbles outside of these intellectual frameworks, challenging practice/theory divides as they police what gets to count as valid object and method, with in which disciplinary framework, where, when, and how” (Loveless 71)

        “GeoHumanities…do not just require us to move beyond disciplinary silos; they also unsettle relations among theory, praxis, scholarship, practice, and application and undo the privilege of academic expertise. 

        … what might GeoHumanities do, and what might it mean to do the GeoHumanities? …radical because what is developed in the course of such work is not just new knowledge, but a set of reflections that take aim at the practices and processes of knowledge production themselves” (Hawkins et al)

        "Looking across the contributions we see publics as collaborators, as knowledge producers, and as constituencies who incite the production of knowledge." (Hawkins et al)

    
    .
    .
    .

    "The _creative_ aspect in creative humanities takes shape in the (literally) productive connection between making practices and thinking practices: making as/through thinking and thinking as/through making. These generative practices are emphatically experimental and comfortable with knowledge production in uncertainty, multiplicity, and friction. Thinking with, through, and beyond concepts, creative humanities projects are creative in designing, and developing their own methods and approaches as they seek to navigate and explore the productive connections and reciprocal relationships between the creative practices they engage with and develop conceptual analytical appraoches for what these practices also work with, through, or beyond."

    ...critical concept creation in the creative humanities is already a theoretical practice"

    ...processses of _rereading_ or _rewriting_..."
        IM RE READING THIS SECTION AT THE EXACT MOMENT ITS MOST APPLICABLE. I AM RE WRITING MY IDEAS AFTER MY LAPTOP BROKE AND I LOST MY DATA. serendipitiy, honestly 
        This introduction talks all about entries into a field, mobilizing concepts, intertextuality

         -- Critical Concepts for the creative humanities - van der tuin and verhoeff

*Thinking with the field ^creative humanities

*Assuming the field / the city as co-author
    iterating through theory and practice

*Deep mapping as constructive interference
    with basemap
    deep mapping as constructive interference with capitalist mode of (knowledge) production
        as an exercise in slow scholarship: it takes time to know a place, to follow curiosity, to become lost 
    deep mapping as constructive interference in academic norms of rendering research public
        as research-creation
    Expanding the monochrome 
        Dialectic, Tension, (surface tension of a bubble)

    
        Diffraction
            >Haraway
            >Barad
            >van der Tuin

    It's a practice of [reflexively] inhabiting the world. Deep mapping is a praxis of (creative, political, disciplinary) intervention, of valorizing process (slow scholarship), of being open - open sponteneity, serendipity, and the possibility of being transormed by the field entered. 
    
*Rhythm exceeds measure 
    quantification, measurable output
        legibility, reproducebility, rigor
             "Like all products, like space, time divides and spits itself into use and use-value on the one hand, and exchange and exchange-value on the other. On the one hand it is sold and on the other it is lived."83
             quantitative and qualitative 
    
    "repetition with difference"
        time, temporality, sum of f(n) n --> infinity 

                "Rhythms: the music of the City, a scene that listens to itself, an image in the present of a discontinuous sum" (45) ...is this contradictory to other arguments?

                    on theoretical shortcomings see pg 17 a, b, c
                rhythm implies measure (meausure being a calculated and expected obligation, a project - THESIS output)
                    "No rhythm without repetition in time and in space, without _reprises_, without returns, in shourt without *measure*.   But there is no identical absolute repetition, indefinately" (16)
                 
                >time =>  constituted by the interference of linear and cyclical rhythms 
                   !!!!INTERFERENCE!!!!
                   
                    rhythms as waves >> interfering 
                        in my research what does the constructive and destructive interference of linear and cyclical rhythms emerge as? 
                    rhythm exceeds measure for it ties over bars. in tension with time (signature) in syncopations which scorn down beats. silences, rests, they are part of the music, space contained within the score. 

                    "Go deeper, dig beneath the surface, listen attentively instead of simply looking, of reflecting the effects of a mirror..." 41 DEEP MAPPING

        on SCALE, briefly
             at what scale do you stop locating yourself in the universe?
             Rhythmanalyst thinks not in the abstract but the lived temporality (30?)
             >> c/siting body as reference 
             Geography from where I stand. On the ground. Off grid. 
             the body is the orign, the point of reference for all rhythms (30) 
             origin, remote/local, (0,0) (git commands, cartesian space, intersection of axes x y and time)


        >Rhythmanalysis _in practice_ transforms presents into precences, instant(ce)s (n s) into continuums which exceed measure, are beyond the grasp of capital(ist) quantification. 

        TIME - commodification of 
        present vs presence 
        "...your present is composed of simulacra" (41)
        --> what does sponteneity do to time?
        --> what does serendipity mean within the context of time?
        does a practice guided by sponteneity and serendipity 
        connect somehow to slow scholarship?

        auto vs sympoesis --> 
        relationships emerge from complex entanglement--> sponteneity --> comings together within the system --> requires being within field rather than situating self as exernal researcher
        cant be predicted --> thats serendipity 

        what is this piece of research as a "work" 
        
        -can't predict duration of creative endeavor-
        -interdisciplinarity doesnt just happen on the page
        
        
        Time in exeriential space - yi fu tuan

*Negative Space
    Lost Poem 
    Marginalia
        READ: MINOR INTERFERENCES: Marginalia as research-creation

    many stories exist within the landscape (pic) --> where to weave this in
    (maniesto - avoid the subject - would be goood to intro to negative spaces concept)

    --> shifting perspectives

*Bridge
    where do i even begin on this one
    gaining perspectie, vantage
    theorizing; abstracting
    above (critique of aerial view from above by de certeau)

        I pressed my chest against the bridge and felt at once its trembling vibration and my own heart’s rapid beating. My body in visceral contact with that of the city - its infrastructure - I embodied for some duration the city’s rhythm.


interdisciplinarity --> co writing - "being on the same page" 

itertextuality
    Each time I leave home I carefully select which books to bring with me, not because I will necessarily read
        them, but more because I like their company. I bring along the people/stories/concepts I wish to think
        with for the day. Often I bring more than one book. Today I have also Lefebvre's <i>Rhythmanalysis</i> (almost
        always with me), <i>A Manifesto for Research-Creation</i>> by Natalie Loveless, and <i>Invisible Cities</i>> by
        Italo Calvino. My all time favorites. I like to put texts into conversation first amongst themselves. In my bag
        they rest against one another, interlap even with one a bookmark for the other.
        Books read me as I read them. I open myself as I open them: read me. What else is there to say?

neurodivergence
    neuroqueer
    adhd methods 
        analogue
        