Is not constructive-interference a tactic? deep mapping a tactic?  tactics within tactics within tactic of intervention, of gaining depth...

seems as though diffraction is praxis oriented --> requires the doing, the invervention; while reflexivity can be shown on the page alone, a mere ***reflection**
DIFFRACTION AS METHOD (barad)

deep mapping as constructive interference --> entering field with body/embodied --> iteration through theory and praxis, thinking with the field (geographical, conceptual) --> makes a difference by intervening in established ways of producing knowledge and rendering research  --> material diffraction of (cartesian, institutional) norms of 
repition with difference//difference and repetition
>> iteration through theory and practice / the rythm of (deep mapping as) research-creation 

resistant to counter cartography --> what does counter do?
resistent to calling this space a cartography, or just wondering why that word should be used
--> trever saying my thesis title  shouldnt include the world "cartography"

basemap constructed as neutral backround 
>>euclidean geometry as pure pursuit

what is resistance? 

Foucault --> counter conduct 
"inventively modify, resist or escape the ways in which we are governed" (http://sro.sussex.ac.uk/id/eprint/59644/1/Counter-conduct%20Special%20Issue%20introduction%20Final-1.pdf)
counter cartography -- explicitly in opposition to conventional cartography/cortographic practice
this --> not a counter cartography but a form of counter conduct
1990s --> counter /critical cartography
    prefix  popularized

deep mapping--> reorienting to negative space of  cartesian (basmap)
negative spaces --> expose contours of power
legibility --> point of not making transgression legible to power?
university institution --> circle --> microcosm of power

Foucault: preface to transgression (1977)
    "The limit and transgression depend on each other for whatever density of being they possess: a limit could not exist if it were absolutely uncrossable and, reciprocally, transgression would be pointless if it merely crossed a limit composed of illu­sions and shadows... Trans­gression caries the limit right to the limit of its being; transgres­ sion forces the limit to face the fact of its imminent disappearance, to find itself in what it excludes" (34)

    "Transgression, then, is not related to the limit as black to white, the prohibited to the lawful, the outside to the inside, or as the open area of a building to its enclosed spaces. Rather, their relationship takes the form of a spiral which no simple infraction can exhaust. Perhaps it is like a flash of lightning in the night which, from the beginning of time, gives a dense and black in­ tensity to the night it denies, which lights up the night from the inside, from top to bottom, and yet owes to the dark the rtark clarity of its manifestation, its harrowing and poised singularity; the flash loses itself in this space it marks with its sovereignty and becomes silent now that it has given a name to obscurity." (35)

    "its [transgression's] role is to measure the excessive distance that it opens at the heart of the limit and to trace the flashing line that causes the limit to arise. Transgression contains nothing negative, but affirms limited being—affirms the limitlessness into which it leaps as it opens this zone to existence for the first time" (35)

Connect to my concept of negative space >> refocusing --> negative space necessary to define subject, indeed shapes it, but not intended object of focus

spiral - iterative
    looses itself in space
    limit
    transgression (thought extensively on transgression, boundaries, intimacy, discipline this time last year)

response to "tyranny of orientation" (or "sovereignty") 
taking time --> against 

Diffraction --> wave meets obstical or opening
    
>deep mapping is constructive interference is diffraction is transgression is weaving in and out iterating through theory and practice collaboratively with the field
outcome of deep mapping not already known .... 
    from arbitrary from chacne 
    met with an obstacle --> detaur --> defract

    Bataille: 
    knowldedge | non-knowledge
    what is it
    presence --> antithetical to the future ?  
    redefining value
    consequences
    not means of end
    "to revolt is to be there, soverign and without limits" 

Diffraction 
    From: Haraway, Donna J. Modest_Witness@Second_Millennium. FemaleMan_Meets_OncoMouse: Feminism and Technoscience. 2nd ed. Second edition. New York, NY : Routledge, 2018. 

        semantics: 
            "the contents and figures of a communication" (14)
            "Semantics is about contents and meanings, tropes and topics" (22)

        "My invented category of semantics, diffractions, takes advantage of the opti- cal metaphors and instruments that are so common in Western philosophy and science. Reflexivity has been much recommended as a critical practice, but my suspicion is that reflexivity, like reflection, only displaces the same elsewhere, setting up the worries about copy and original and the search for the authentic and really real. Reflexivity is a bad trope for escaping the false choice between realism and relativism in thinking about strong objectivity and situated knowl- edges in technoscientific knowledge.What we need is to make a difference in material-semiotic apparatuses, to diffract the rays of technoscience so that we get more promising interference patterns on the recording films of our lives and bodies. Diffraction is an optical metaphor for the effort to make a difference in the world. Lynn Randolph’s suggestive painting on the last page concludes Modest_Witness@Second_Millennium.FemaleMan©_Meets_OncoMouseTM with an interference pattern, not with a reflection of the same displaced elsewhere." (16)

        "Diffraction patterns record the history of interaction, interference, reinforcement, difference. Diffraction is about heterogeneous history, not about originals. Unlike reflections, diffractions do not displace the same elsewhere, in more or less distorted form, thereby giving rise to industries of metaphysics. Rather, diffraction can be a metaphor for another kind of critical consciousness at the end of this rather painful Christian millennium, one committed to making a difference and not to repeating the Sacred Image of Same. Diffraction is askew of Christian narrative and Platonist optics, in their sacred secular technoscientific story cycles as well as their more orthodox manifestations. Diffraction is a narrative, graphic, psychological, spiritual, and political technology for making consequential meanings." (273)


        THIS Donna Haraway, ‘Promises of Monsters’ p 70
        
        "Diffraction does not produce "the same" displaced, as reflection and refraction do. Diffraction is a mapping of interference, not of replication, reflection, or reproduction. A diffraction pattern does not map where differences appear, but rather maps where the effects of difference appear."

    From: Tuin, Iris van der. “Diffraction as a Methodology for Feminist Onto-Epistemology: On Encountering Chantal Chawaf and Posthuman Interpellation.” Parallax 20, no. 3 (July 3, 2014): 231–44. https://doi.org/10.1080/13534645.2014.927631.

        "In an attempt to account for ontology (the ontological element of the past in general) and epistemology (accounting for subjectivity in a framework of societal and environmental developments that extend beyond human action, reparation and comprehension, but must not lead to the return of the Subject), I will innovate on interference patterning or diffraction as a methodology for capturing what I call ‘posthuman interpellation’. This methodology can account for the specific temporality and subjectivity that I try to bring to the surface in this article; the temporality and subjectivity at work in practices of knowing in being. There is something about the always/already affected cartography of, in my case, feminist new materialism, that compels methodological precision." (233-234)