Some grey day last winter I walked the stretch of shoreline that wraps around the traditional, ancestral, unceded territory of the xʷməθkʷəy̓əm (Musqueam) First Nations. I am here because from where the sand turns dry begin the University Endowment Lands on which UBC campus is situated. With the Salish sea on one side and a forest of evergreens and sword ferns to the other, the university at which I am a graduate student is geographically and administratively separated from the city of Vancouver. The beach is the only spot on campus where I can think. A five minute walk from the Geography Department takes me to a zig-zag staircase at the bottom of which awaits a place where clothing is optional. My shoes and socks are the first to come off. The ground beneath me is cold and firm, yet porous. It holds the shape of my soles and reshapes in my hands. I contain it for a moment - appreciating the texture of time and force - then release it. How freeing to exist in a landscape with nothing but the body.     
        
        {Sensorium is the initial mechanism by which I receive data from my surroundings. I walk the shoreline to feel something visceral. s/c/iting the body as reference.}

Sunshine was a precious thing my first winter here when it rained for four months and the cloud cover was so dense that a dimple of white was the only indication our star remained. Monochrome days used to really kill my vibe. There’s a dullness to a landscape lit ambiently, a non-differentiation that makes it difficult to articulate thoughts. That day I paused at ocean’s edge where barnacles encrust the rocks and molluscs collect in crunchy bundles. In and out rolled the waves and I breathed with them. On each exhale I noticed how foam gathered around the rocks at my feet, forming bubbles on whose surface spun psychedelic spirals. This happens due to thin film interference, where light waves reflecting off the surface of a bubble are interfered with by waves which have been transmitted through the film, reflected back, and refracted at the surface at the angle of incidence. When refracted waves emerging at the surface are shifted so as to be in-synch with those reflected, they interfere constructively to make visible an abundance of colors. [sketch reference diagram] Deep mapping is constructive interference with the superficial reflection that is the basemap. Deep mapping is not constitutive of a cartography itself but rather a capacious practice of situated, embodied, reflexive inhabitation. Mapping deeply requires the researcher to enter into dialogue with the field of inquiry. Off the page. In the everyday. 

The importance of place is no secret to geographers, but of those whom I’ve met, few consider their everyday navigations as fieldwork. Like many colleagues, beginning a graduate program meant moving to a new city, biome, country. I arrived in Vancouver on the unceded lands of Coast Salish First Nations, disoriented. While Google Maps helped me get from A to B, the drive to locate and coordinate precludes disoriented discovery. As cartography TA, I graded sixty maps of downtown before I finally ventured there. Until then, it didn’t exist for me because it was nowhere on my mental map. For me, orientation evolved not through memorizing a map but by developing spatial awareness through everyday practices of engaging with the city. Deep mapping is an exercise in slow scholarship: it takes time to know a place, to follow curiosity, to become lost. 

    {beyond the basemap --> Practice Based -->  reserach-creation --> structure/form of output this site contains ...}

My master's thesis responds in both form and content to the charge for praxis to extend beyond study and actually enact knowledge production differently (Narayan and Rosenman 2022). What is contained by negative-spaces.github.io demonstrates a research methodology where the field is not a site separate from the desk at which geography is written. Whatever outcome here lies is the product of thinking with place and so I assume the field of my encounter as co-author. This endeavor emerges from an iteration through theory and practice - the rhythm of deep mapping as research-creation. Each loop brings me into deeper conversation with my conceptual and geographical field, each intervention and emergence a chance to move beyond the monochrome. 

Deep mapping is a praxis of intervention, of valorizing process, and of being open - open to sponteneity, serendipity, and the possibility of being transormed by the field entered. 

"Place impels me; it is the actor. Place unfurls around me; it becomes the subject." Maleea Acker in Lyric Geography (2019, 132)

>> next: the expanded field
>> next: navigations
>> next: conceptual framework (concepts in more depth)