The Field 
From where I stand 

landscape picture

Lindner, Christoph, and Miriam Meissner. “Urban Imaginaries in Theory and Practice.” In The Routledge Companion to Urban Imaginaries. Routledge, 2018
De Certeau 

expanding the field of cartography, or what that term means --> cartography is the art and science of map making --> but when used in sense of practice generally conceived of as the making of a 2D map

The field is everywhere I look. As far as I can see. Wherever I go.  
Creative Humanities, Geohumanities, Cartography, Geography, Digital Geography 

Situating self --> point of orign (0,0) -- 
        field emerges through interaction of geographer-researcher and place - field is all that i think with, conceptually, friends and colleagues, geophysical place too 
        ^^^ was just reading about this Agential Realism
                "Practices of knowing and being are not isolable; they are mutually implicated. We don't obtain knowledge by standing outside the world; we know because we are of the world. We are part of the world in its differential becoming. The separation of epistemology from ontology is a reverberation of a metaphysics that assumes an inherent difference between human and nonhuman, subject and object, mind and body, matter and discourse." (Barad, 2007, p. 185)

                maybe bring in that here
                phenomenon; 
                assemblage thinking

                here, ND

>>field is space of my experience<< 
        {Sensorium is the initial mechanism by which I receive data from my surroundings. I walk the shoreline to feel something visceral. "Deep mapping... presupposed the embodied presence of the researcher 'within' the space under investigation." (Roberts 2018, 11). 
        s/c/iting the body as reference. This may be good to include in field under discussion of point of origin 0,0.}
 

    Expanded Field (Rosalind Krauss): 42
            https://monoskop.org/images/b/bf/Krauss_Rosalind_1979_Sculpture_in_the_Expanded_Field.pdf
            "The expanded field which characterizes this domain of postmodernism possesses two features that are already implicit in the above description. One of these concerns the practice of individual artists; the other has to do with the question of medium. At both these points the bounded conditions of modernism have suffered a logically determined rupture.
            
            With regard to individual practice, it is easy to see that many of the artists in question have found themselves occupying, successively, different places within the expanded field. And though the experience of the field suggests that this continual relocation of one's energies is entirely logical, an art criticism still in the thrall of a modernist ethos has been largely suspicious of such movement, calling it eclectic. This suspicion of a career that moves continually and erratically beyond the domain of sculpture obviously derives from the modernist demand for the purity and separateness of the various mediums (and thus the necessary special- ization of a practitioner within a given medium). But what appears as eclectic from one point of view can be seen as rigorously logical from another. For, within the situation of postmodernism, practice is not defined in relation to a given medium-sculpture-but rather in relation to the logical operations on a set of cultural terms, for which any medium-photography, books, lines on walls, mirrors, or sculpture itself-might be used."


            Krauss diagrams the expanded field of which sculpture is but a peripheral locus by constructing a paiget group from sculpture as a "combination of exclusions": not-landscape and not-architecture. 

            negative space, paiget groups, development of spatial cognition and mapping
            >http://homepages.phonecoop.coop/vamos/work/lecturenotes/sun/LectureNotes/Env4_EnvCog/environmental2.html
            ^^ model can be applied to coming to know a field (city) measured through ability to navigate without a (non mental) map --> stages follow. 
            the same mathemeatical model Krause uses to perorm a logical expansion on the field of sculpture is used in mapping spatial cognition...?!
    
        "The City" as a proper noun problematized (de Certeau)
            Probematising The City as noun/subject/field --> de Certeau
                The "city" produced by "flattening out of all the data in a plane projection"; impose "nowhen" - time
                ""The city," like a proper name, thus provides a way of conceiving and constructing space on the basis of a finite number of stable, isolatable, and interconnected properties." (94)
                ...
                "Finally, the functionalist organizaiton, by priviledging progress (i.e., time), causes the condition of its own possibility–-space itself––to be forgotten; space thus becomes the blind spot in a scientific and political technology."

                >Urban efficiency equated to time. But in practice the diagonal is not always the most efficient way to cross an intersection though the crosswalk is drawn so. As GT said: "inefficiency as praxis". Question "efficiency" --> who benefits from shortening time?

                ... certeau continues on to "analyze the microbe-like, singular and plural practices which an urbanistic system was supposed to administer or supress, but which have outlived its decay; ....far from being regulated or eliminated by panoptic administration, have reinforced themselves in a proliferating illegitimacy... unreadable but stable tactics to the point of constituting everyday regulations and surreptitious creativities..."
         The field is not a site separate from where research is written up → challenging method of travelling a great distance to the field and then returning to institution to write up knowledge from field notes

         being moved/transformed by field (Certeau, Loveless, Acker)
            "Place impels me; it is the actor. Place unfurls around me; it becomes the subject." 132 Lyric Geography by Maleea Acker

            Development of cognative maps

            extend to development of spatial awareness in new place for adults, 

            which brings us to --> navigations 
            --> department as field (deep mapping as constructive interference)

What is my field? What is my fieldwork?
    Fieldwork (speculative) 
     My practice takes place in the city of Vancouver and UBC campus, my writing in and around the city - sometimes inside often outside when the sun shines. 
    Modeen, Mary, and Iain Biggs. Creative Engagements with Ecologies of Place: Geopoetics, Deep Mapping and Slow Residencies. London: Routledge, 2020. https://doi.org/10.4324/9781003089773.

Situate within disciplinary field --> transdisciplinary? polydisciplinary (loveless)
        Creative Humanities, Geohumanities, Cartography, Geography, Digital Geography - 

         "Traditional interdisciplinary, with its intertheory thrust, could be said to be about _who_ (which disciplines) one commits to, while research-creation, as a _polydisciplinamorous_ orientation, becomes about _how_ one commits to producing new kinship ties not only in terms of _content_ (the "who") but in terms of _form_ (the "how"). Natalie Loveless in her Manifesto for Research Creation (2019, 63)

?


"It removes the traces of belonging to a network-traces
that always compromise the author's rights. It camouflages the conditions of the production of discourse and its object. For this negated genealogy is substituted a drama combining the simulacrum of an object
with the simulacrum of an author. A discourse can maintain a certain
scientific character, however, by making explicit the rules and conditions
of its production, and first of all the relations out of which it arises. " (de Certeau 44)


“GeoHumanities…do not just require us to move beyond disciplinary silos; they also unsettle relations among theory, praxis, scholarship, practice, and application and undo the privilege of academic expertise. 

     … what might GeoHumanities do, and what might it mean to do the GeoHumanities? …radical because what is developed in the course of such work is not just new knowledge, but a set of reflections that take aim at the practices and processes of knowledge production themselves” (Hawkins et al)

    "Looking across the contributions we see publics as collaborators, as knowledge producers, and as constituencies who incite the production of knowledge." (Hawkins et al)
    ^^^ so what if publics wasnt only human ??!!! 



Examples of thinking with the field:
    Detour on the bus --> idea about navigations/connections/emergence of framework (mental map)
    Abstract --> Concrete
        Drawing with chalk on sidewalk as bricolage, transoforming the pedestrian 
    Constructive interference --> expanding the monochrome



Symposium presentation:

I had trouble coming here today. It wasn’t the Broadway construction or my chronic inability to adhere to linear time. I simply wasn't excited. And for me, a neurodivergent, when I’m not interested in a task it becomes physically, mentally, and emotionally impossible to do it. Last night I decided with a lot of guilt that I wasn’t going to show up because I didn't have the capacity to stand before you and mask how I was feeling in order to give a presentation just for the sake of talking the talk. 

Being adhd, or having what I prefer to name as a kinetic cognitive style, shapes how I am in the world and how I think. Most days, my power to intuit meaning––to dissolve into fascination and draw frankly clairvoyant connections––is a source of joy and contributes constructively to my research. This morning, however, I realized attending to neurodivergence in academia goes beyond valorizing a methodology. It requires facing, investigating, and validating internal resistances that arise in the process of doing scholarship within a system that expects/rewards certain modes of being and thinking. First conceived by Nick Walker in 2008, neuroqueer is a “practice of queering (subverting, defying, disrupting, liberating oneself from) neuronormativity and heteronormativity simultaneously.” I love the idea of neuroqueer because it defies opposition in favor of interference. Whats more, it challenges categorizations that feed orientations defined by identity politics. Being able to separate myself from my research would have made today perhaps easier. But what got me here in the end was recognizing I don’t need to do this in order to say something meaningful. 

I want to think together about the field. Where is your field? How do you determine what counts as fieldwork? 


Framed otherwise, where is not your field? 

In visual art, negative space is that which surrounds the subject but is not the intended focus of attention. Indeed, the intelligible form is defined by what it others––what it excludes, what it is not. 


field - this is part - 

My interest is in the layered multiplicities not the single story. 
Less about reframing but widening the frame thinking about what is outside the frame, what is inside, the shape of the frame and why. 
Bella and I have this refrain: Its all the field. 

WHEN ITS ALL THE FIELD EVERYWHERE BECOMES A SITE FOR PRAXIS 

Praxis denotes the inseparability of theory and practice. 
