
THINKING WITH PLACE 
        (commonplace or juxtaposed writing; emphasize thinking with fields of encounter, physical and conceptual)

Many stories exist within the landscape. What do you see? [epigraph from the field]   

    Arrival; TAing 1st and last term

        Begin with my story of arrival; 
        Like many colleagues, beginning a graduate program meant moving to a new city, biome, country. I arrived in Vancouver on the unceded lands of Coast Salish First Nations, disoriented. While Google Maps helped me get from A to B, the drive to locate and coordinate precludes disoriented discovery. As cartography TA, I graded sixty maps of downtown before I finally ventured there. Until then, it didn’t exist for me because it was nowhere on my mental map. For me, orientation evolved not through memorizing a map but by developing spatial awareness through everyday practices of engaging with the city. 
        
        first term TAing and how i marked 60 maps of downtown before ever being there. how it did not exist until everyday navigations. Then last term TAing, how I had them draw a map of their vancouver - all mostly outlines as seen from above. Then taught 1st assignment which was to screenshot google maps and trace in adobe illustrator. Is that reflective of experience? Flat maps render place by *reducing* the "fleshy," textural, and experiential to a 2D representation. They render down from above. homogenizing diversity 

    >tyranny of orientation quote; disoriented discovery 
                "It seems as though in the end, maps —the successful ones, the ones that show us where we are and get us from here to there —risk offering only two alternatives. They let us see too much, and hence blind us to what we cannot see, imposing a quiet tyranny of orientation that erases the possibility of disoriented discovery, or they lose sight of all the other things that we ought to see. They omit, according to their conventions, those *invisible lines of people, places, and networks that create the most common spaces we live in today.*" (Laura Kurgan, 16-17 from Close up and at a distance, emphasis mine)

            my orientation to relating to place --> relationship anarcy --> counters hegemonic forms of engaging with and rendering place
                   " Build for the lovely unexpected"
                   my orientation is that of slowing down, giving freely, and being open - open to spontaneity, serendipity, and the possibility of being transformed by the field. 

    >spatial anthropology; fundamental spatiality of being
                "the processes whereby the fundamental spatiality of being is woven into and from everyday practices, dispositions and experiential knowledge. To proceed on these terms ... is to understand and practice space as an existential ground of everyday being." (Roberts 2018, 30)

            The importance of place is no secret to geographers, but of those whom I’ve met, few consider their everyday navigations as fieldwork. Riding the bus, walking the bridge, drawing with chalk on the sidewalk – engagements such as these form the origin from where I write. For me, the field is not a site separate from the desk at which geography is written. Mapping deeply requires the researcher to enter into dialogue with the field of inquiry. Off the page. In the everyday. 

    Questions: As a geographer, living here, now:
        What does it mean to think with place? To feel the city? My master’s thesis is an exploration and response to these questions through deep mapping, a practice of situated, embodied inhabitation. 
            (response isnt just about what these mean, and how I do, but what does it mean once you do and what do I learn form it) --> my theorization from practice, but not practice based bc??; not practice led because because im not operationalizing---> well, not only so.... research creation 

        My work is research-creation for I ask questions which “set[] up a dialogue with the world” and are driven by intellectual and spatial topoi which lure me forwards even before I comprehend where they lead (Loveless 2019, 95). Indeed, so grasped am I by the city’s rhythms I become Lefebvre’s rhythmanalyst (2013). Pressing my chest against the Granville Bridge I feel at once its trembling vibration and my own heart’s rapid beating. My body in visceral contact with that of the city––its infrastructure––I embody for some duration the city’s rhythm. 

            touched by the bridge - bodies 

            "...to grasp a rhythm it is necessary to have been grasped by it; one must let oneself go, give oneself over, abandon oneself to its duration." (lefebvre, 27) 
            
        "If we understand research-creation as productive of undutiful, uncanny, boundary objects, it is the queer and queering, polydisciplinamorous link+/objet a that organizes such production. It does so by insisting we attend to those drives and desires that animate our stories—the stories that we find ourselves told by—and the ethics embedded in such modes of attention. The stories at stake here are not conscious. These aren’t simply stories that we mobilize, that we control. These are stories that grasp us as much if not more than we grasp them." (Loveless 2019, 95)
         
        the other story to grasp me --> Italo Calvino's Invisible Cities -->  BRINGS BACK TO EPIGRAPH "many stories exist in the landscape."
        Deep mapping is listening (sensing) for the stories that exist in the landscape. recognizing frame/ing creates partial account of field. coming into dialogue with place (cite paper "Place Dialogue"), assuming fields of encounter as interlocutor, I think and write with place. 
            "...to grasp a rhythm it is necessary to have been grasped by it; one must let oneself go, give oneself over, abandon oneself to its duration" (Lefebvre, 27).


DEEP MAPPING AS INTERFERENCE
            Bubble fieldnote; explain constructive and destructive interference. not a totalizing analogy, just when I first started thinking about deep mapping as interference from within the field with superficial reflections (representations) of place like flat maps which render (down) from above.  (connects to TA example from beginning.)
            
                Some grey day last winter I walked the stretch of shoreline that wraps around the traditional, ancestral, unceded territory of the xʷməθkʷəy̓əm (Musqueam) First Nations. I am here because from where the sand turns dry begins the land occupied by the University of British Columbia. With the Salish sea on one side and a forest of evergreens and sword ferns to the other, the university at which I am a graduate student is geographically and administratively separated from the city of Vancouver. The beach is the only spot on campus I can breathe easily, where I can think. A five minute walk from the Geography Department takes me to a zig-zag staircase at the bottom of which awaits a place where clothing is optional. My shoes and socks are the first to come off. The sand is cold and firm, yet porous. It holds the impression of my soles and reshapes in my hands. I contain it for a moment - appreciating the texture worn from time and force - then release it. How freeing to exist in a landscape with nothing (on) but the body. 
   
                Sunshine was a precious thing my first winter settled in Vancouver when it rained for four months straight. The cloud cover was so dense that a dimple of white was the only indication our star remained. Monochrome days used to really kill my vibe. There’s a dullness to a landscape lit ambiently, a non-differentiation that makes it difficult to articulate thoughts. That day I paused at ocean’s edge where barnacles encrust the rocks and molluscs cling together in crunchy bundles. In and out rolled the waves, and I breathed with them. On each exhale I noticed how foam gathered around the rocks at my feet, forming bubbles on whose surface spun psychedelic spirals. This happens due to thin film interference, where light waves reflecting off the surface of a bubble are interfered with by waves which have been transmitted through the film, reflected back, and refracted at the surface at the angle of incidence. When refracted waves are shifted so as to be in-synch with those reflected, they interfere constructively to make visible an abundance of colors. [sketch reference diagram] 

                Introduce destructive interference; 
            
            Interference --> dialogue --> transformation --> new wave or pattern, diffraction pattern --> maleaa acker quote of field ?? where does this go

    AS INTERFERENCE WITH X Y Z 

    diffractive method0logy 
         It is thus a diffractive methodology which assumes interference patterns––in my case generated intentionally as praxis––as both a tactic and site of knowledge production (Barad 2007).

        apparatus --> all that matters; body/boundaries ---> constitution ---> segway
      
CONSTITUTING THE FIELD: NAVIGATINS AND ENCOUNTER
        NAVIAGTION IS INTERFERENCE- constitutive --> way (literaly) of investigating shapes the properties here mental map. (or cognative.... )
        fields of encounter constituted through navigations
        theory constituded through practice 
        >> give theory 
    
    --> apparatus --> intolocuter --> maleaa acker quote framing this (but contests with barad bc what is subject? agental realism, also place agency, place dialogue paper)
       
        "Place impels me; it is the actor. Place unfurls around me; it becomes the subject." Maleea Acker in Lyric Geography (Acker 2019, 132)
            --> touch and be touched (sensing; not with object but both ways -- RA)


    Intersecting fields - theory/praxis 
    whole thing on formation of research lemiscate, process etc. bring in slow scholarship lit here. 

EXPANDING THE FIELD 
Krauss: sculpture in the expanded field --> “The expanded field is thus generated by problematizing the set of oppositions." 
        Not (nec.) to apply this to cartography or the "Map" but rather to give context to one already constructed expansion of the field of a discipline/creative-art  
    Ian cook --> people are process 

NEGATIVE SPACE -- expanding the field through shifting focus ? --
negation, the map is not this or not that, the thesis is not this or not that way done
    In visual arts such as painting, photography, and maps, negative space refers to that which surrounds the subject, which gives the subject definition 
    Negative space is that which defines the subject , definition ––space whose very existence is necessary in order to give definition to the subject but which is not the intended focus of attention. 
    Boundary gives definition to subject 
    Subject defined by that which it is not, which is excluded, 
    so what are -- 

Deep mapping does not counter cartography; it is not defined by opposition so much as through acts of iterative interference with hegemonic forms of representing place, producing knowledge, and rendering research public. (or put this after whole build up)

        Expand the field from within by refocusing attention, calling to the foreground ways of being and operating // valorizing entangled/practical/embodied ways of engaging with place, producing geographic knowledge, and rendering spatial research.  
        Expanding the Field by refocus attention from within the field to other/ed modes of engaging with place, producing geographic knowledge, and rendering spatial research public.

TACTICS --> how is this done?
    “A tactic is a calculated action determined by the absence of a proper locus. No delimitation of an exteriority, then, provides it with the condition necessary for autonomy. The space of a tactic is the space of the other. Thus, it must play on and with a terrain imposed on it and organized by the law of a foreign power. …It must vigilantly make use of the cracks that particular conjunctures open in the surveillance of the proprietary powers. It poaches them. It creates surprises in them. It can be where it is least expected. It is a guileful ruse.” (de Certeau, 37)

               “Strategies pin their hopes on the resistance that the establishment of place offers to the erosion of time; tactics on a clever utilization of time, of the opportunities it presents and also of the play that it introduces into the foundations of power.” (de certeau 36)

                >Rhythmanalyst more attuned to times than spaces
                >Rhythmanalyst will bring about new works by reinventing the very concept of work 

               Strategies other → create negative space to define themselves, draw limits to give themselves shape: tactics are “Modalities of action, formalities of practice” distinguished by “types of operation and the role of spaces” “Tactics can only use, manipulate, and divert [] spaces” make do with whats there, (de certeau 36)

    “…a tactic boldly juxtaposes diverse elements in order suddenly to produce a flash shedding a different light on the language of a place and to strike the hearer. Cross-cuts, fragments, cracks and lucky hits in the framework of a system, consumers’ ways of operating are the practical equivalents of wit. …. Intellectual creativity as persistent as it is subtle, tireless, ready for every opportunity, scattered over the terrain of the dominant order and foreign to the rules laid down and imposed by a rationality founded on established rights and property” (de certeau 38)

Bricolage; tactics of making do
    scales of tactics; what I do (practice)


PRACTICAL KNOWLEDGE --> wait does this go before transgression? bc transgression brings together everything but will it take too long to get to? BUT transgression has to follow tactics bc flashes? 
    gelaning all that informal economy stuff

    Tactics differ from practical knowledge i realize bc tactics are not localizable, they are not defined by place; practical knowledge is always local. Deep mapping is a tactic that generates practical knowledge → through? Tactics? Or, deployment of tactics is doable when you know the terrain → interfering from inside

ND Tactics
    how expanded field/forgroudn background impacts the process of this project for me --> 


TRANSGRESSION - negative space --> deep mapping as tactic for transgression x y z; refocusing, from within field; eluding discipline; illegible and unruly; r-c;
Foucault: preface to transgression (1977)
    "The limit and transgression depend on each other for whatever density of being they possess: a limit could not exist if it were absolutely uncrossable and, reciprocally, transgression would be pointless if it merely crossed a limit composed of illu­sions and shadows... Trans­gression caries the limit right to the limit of its being; transgres­sion forces the limit to face the fact of its imminent disappearance, to find itself in what it excludes" (34)

    "Transgression, then, is not related to the limit as black to white, the prohibited to the lawful, the outside to the inside, or as the open area of a building to its enclosed spaces. Rather, their relationship takes the form of a spiral which no simple infraction can exhaust. Perhaps it is like a flash of lightning in the night which, from the beginning of time, gives a dense and black in­ tensity to the night it denies, which lights up the night from the inside, from top to bottom, and yet owes to the dark the rtark clarity of its manifestation, its harrowing and poised singularity; the flash loses itself in this space it marks with its sovereignty and becomes silent now that it has given a name to obscurity." (35)

    "its [transgression's] role is to measure the excessive distance that it opens at the heart of the limit and to trace the flashing line that causes the limit to arise. Transgression contains nothing negative, but affirms limited being—affirms the limitlessness into which it leaps as it opens this zone to existence for the first time" (35)

    deep mapping is a tactic of transgression for it "forces the limit to face the fact of its imminent disappearance, to find itself in what it excludes" (Foucault). its all the field (Lily & Bella's refrain).
    
TIE TOGETHER 
deep mapping is a spatial practice of making do, a tactic of interference, a diffractive methodology, 

    theory/practice
    foucault
    geohumanities
    creative humanities
    research creation 

    "research-creation suggests a mode of knowledge production that does more than simply contribute to existing realms of interdisciplinary and disciplinary data. Instead, without eschewing the asymmetries of hierarchical disciplinary differences, it tumbles outside of these intellectual frameworks, challenging practice/theory divides as they police what gets to count as a valid object and method, within which disciplinary framework, where, when, and how." (Loveless 2019, 70)

    “GeoHumanities…do not just require us to move beyond disciplinary silos; they also unsettle relations among theory, praxis, scholarship, practice, and application and undo the privilege of academic expertise. 

    … what might GeoHumanities do, and what might it mean to do the GeoHumanities? …radical because what is developed in the course of such work is not just new knowledge, but a set of reflections that take aim at the practices and processes of knowledge production themselves” (Hawkins et al) 



Making space for deep mapping 

        not a cartography --> a practice (leads to tacticcs next )
    "very little of what deep mappers are doing is in fact oriented towrads the production of maps so much as immersing themsevels in the warp and weft (OMG THIS WILL LEAD TO SENTENCE ON WEAVING A RHYTHM OF CARTOGRAPHIC PRAXIS BEYOND THE MONOCHROME) of a lived and fundamentally intersubjective spatiality." (Roberts 2018)
    deep mapping doesnt counter

    McLucas here; bring in others who practice deep mapping today


    Practices // process? 
    Process, Practice, Pedagogy? 
        slow scholarship 

    "It is true that the operations of walking on can be traced on city maps in such a way as to transcribe their paths (here well-trodden, there very faint) and their trajectories (going this way and not that). But these thick or thin curves only refer, like words, to the absence of what has passed by. Surveys of routes miss what was: the act itself of passing by. The operation of walking, wandering, or "window shopping," that is, the activity of passers-by, is transformed into points that draw a totalizing and reversible line on the map. They allow us to grasp only a relic set in the nowhen of a surface of projection. Itself visible, it has the effect of making invisible the operation that made it possible. These fixations constitute procedures for forgetting. The trace left behind is substituted for the practice. It exhibits the (voracious) property that the geographical system has of being able to transform action into legibility, but in doing so it causes a way of being in the world to be forgotten. " (de certeau 97) They allow us to grasp only a relic set in the nowhen of a surface of projection. Itself visible, it has the effect of making invisible the operation that made it possible. These fixations constitute procedures for forgetting. The trace left behind is substituted for the practice. It exhibits the (voracious) property that the geographical system has of being able to transform action into legibility, but in doing so it causes a way of being in the world to be forgotten. " (de certeau 1984, 97)

    "a form drawing is a present record of a past movement, the remaining trace of a finished gesture." (Gerbert 1987, 9)

    How might knowledge generated through spatial praxes be rendered without being flattened, georeferenced, or vectorized? This presentation introduces negative-spaces.github.io, the digital space I am building to convey my master’s research in a form akin to the rhizomatic process of its creation and the interconnectedness of intellectual and spatial topoi which lure me to disoriented discovery. I will demonstrate how my theorization of deep mapping––constituted through my practice of deep mapping––is enacted in both the construction and structure of negative-spaces.github.io. Deep mapping does not counter cartography; it is not defined by opposition so much as through acts of iterative interference. Deep mapping is thus a tactic for transgression. By locating my thesis output in negative space, I aim to refocus attention from within the field to other/ed modes of engaging with place, producing geographic knowledge, and rendering spatial research public.


    My output renders knowledge generated through practice and of practice without operationalizing practice itself. It takes shape in negative-spaces.github.io, a digital space for deep mapping whose form resembles the rhizomatic process of research-creation and the interconnectedness of my points of reference. Negative-spaces.github.io refocuses attention (from) within the field, expanding what counts in/as research. The journey becomes foreground. In both research and creation I employ tactics of bricolage––the poetics of making do with what tools, skills, and materials are around (Roberts 2018). Tactics are methods whose validity is measured by their applicability to the situation at hand (de Certeau 1984). Practical knowledge, in other words. For instance, instead of learning everything about coding and styling webpages before building my web-site, I teach myself what I need as I go, often gleaning (copypasting) snippets of open source code (as is custom) that are relevant to what I am attempting in the moment. Indeed, it is through my job at the library––assisting in geospatial information and technology––that I learned to command the version control software I write with (git), and internet hosting service which renders visible my work (GitHub).







