NAVIGATIONS 
 concepts: Route, Disorientation, Lost, Detour, {Detournement,} Lemniscate, Loops, Journey, Exploration, Form(at -drawing)

        I take the 33 bus to campus on a whim. I'm running late to teach and I don't want to deal with the hassle of Broadway construction. Why have I never taken the 33? I wonder as a 5 minute walk brings me to a deserted stop. I sit on a bench in the sun to catch my breath a moment. The 33 is one of the smaller buses. Its seats have that soft fabric patterned like a roller rink carpet. Riding the 33 is outside my routine. Its route takes me through places I've been before but have yet to connect via this navigation. ("I didn't realize the WISE was so close to Commercial! I came a different way last time. Oh, I remember walking through this park though! Okay, now I know where I am and where the WISE 'really is.'") The city is daily reinvented in my imaginary. Though far from Venice, I could fill a book with each page a different Vancouver. The city emerges for me not through place making alone but from connections - spatial relationships - drawn by my moving in/out/through/between/among areas of familiarity.

        Navigations articulate a mental map of place. And, though forever evolving and contingent, as the  field becomes more densely networked with/through unique connections, specific areas or spots become more anchored in relation to one another. In this way, navigation makes navigable. (I can trace in my mind at least10 pathways to travel from where I stand to Centerm Shipyard. And that's as a human – the urban field to a crow or a pair of chasing squirrels is another.) For me, spatial awareness of the place I inhabit - that geographical field of my encounter - develops through embodied spatial practices (see tactics.txt) including everyday navigations.  

    I wrote these thoughts initially in the whitespace of _A brief history of my body_ by Billy-Ray Belcourt. Around the margin, in the negative space of another story. Each time I leave home I carefully select which books to bring with me, not because I will necessarily read them, but more because I like their company. I bring along the people/stories/concepts I wish to think with for the day. Often I bring more than one book. I like to put texts into conversation first amongst themselves. In my bag they interlap, folding together they bookmark one another. Opening one, I open myself: read me. 

    More recently I boarded the 99 bus with Critical Concepts for the Creative Humanities. I brought this book because each concept is but a few pages - the distance between City Hall and MacDonald if you ride the 99 along Broadway. It opens to where I'd hastily tucked a crayon, to a page I'd never before been: Navigations. 

        "...navigation entails the production of a performative cartography of a terrain, field, or domain that is constituted in the very act of its exploration" (Tuin and Verhoeff 2022, 137-139).

    Just as navigating the geographical field articulates a mental map of physical space navigations within a conceptual field articulate a theoretical framework - a cognitive conceptualization of an emergent web of connection at which my ideas tug and pull. Following a concept in multiple directions I find myself making surprising connections. I write "follow" because when I loosen my desire to arrive at a specific place, when I release control of the destination as it were, I make room for latent connections to make themselves (apparent).  
    
    Exploration, put one way, is "the action of traveling in or through an unfamiliar area in order to learn about it" (https://bit.ly/3XeFxZw). Deep mapping is a practice of learning through disorientation. Though the field, geographical or conceptual, is at first unfamiliar, the iterative act of navigating, of finding ways around, coheres a framework of reference points which constitute the field of encounter. 
    
        "...navigation itself produces knowledge that feeds into its course and experience itself." (Tuin and Verhoeff 2022, 137-139) 
    
    Deep mapping is geography in practice. I think *with* the field of my encounter as it unfolds. Ideas connect while walking the bridge. Vantage affords me perspective of the field I've navigated. Individual places and concepts fall into context with one another in a way that's hard to envision from the ground. I pause at the apex to press my chest against the bridge. I feel at once its trembling vibration and my own heart’s rapid beating. My body in visceral contact with that of the city - its infrastructure - I embody for some duration the city’s rhythm.

My theory of deep mapping is constituted through my practice of deep mapping. 

That sentence took nine months of writing and re-writing. My theory, the knowledge I produce, what my thesis is actually about - it all emerges from the iteration through theory and practice. To further describe the "iterative loops between action, experience, and knowledge" (Tuin and Verhoeff 2022, 138) which form my research (and whose form my research takes) I introduce the Lemniscate:

    ∞

The lemniscate is a form I grew up drawing and walking as part of Waldorf pedagogy. Beginning in first grade 1, along with 20 classmates, learned form drawing and Eurythmy. Eurythmy is "visible speech, visible music" / "music translated into movement" (Steiner 1923) - a spatial practice accompanied by piano whose every class began by walking a lemniscate for nearly ten minutes. Facing forward we flowed as one body in continuous motion. Although eurythmy was, without exception, our least favorite block, I have no doubt practicing it twice a week for eight years significantly developed my sense of spatial awareness. Also beginning in grade one was the practice of form drawing. Sitting in silence for an hour or more we would draw a form like the lemniscate over and over, the crayon in constant contact with the page. Form drawing is process oriented: "It is the _act_ of drawing that educates, not the result" (Gebert 1987, 8). The embodied iteration of patterns was a fundamental mechanism by which representational subjects like writing and arithmetic were later taught. My critiques of Waldorf pedagogy notwithstanding, I attribute my acute spatial awareness and orientation towards sensorium to my experience of "multisensory learning, where ears and eyes and voice, hands and feet, mind and memory, all work together to reinforce each other" (Gebert 1987, 12).
                !!!!Form Drawing / rendering
                 CONNECTS TO DE CERTEAU --> MAPS OF FOOTSTEPS --> 
                "a form drawing is a present record of a past movement, the remaining trace of a finished gesture." (Gerbert 1987, 9)
                
Note: 
(still working on this definition...)
The lemniscate is the graphical (cartesian) rendering of an equation where the product of two foci is always one. A lemniscate is a curve derived from a constant relation, whereas a figure-eight is a symbol representing the concept of infinity. How then, does ∞, both form and symbol, relate to my spatial praxis and the formation of knowledge? 

Well in algebraic geometry
algebraic geometry ---> vs projective geometry!!!!! 
infinity points introduced --> 3D --> think perspective drawing

problem of rendering 3D in 2D (like my thesis)
add infinity points for perspective but in practice its a lemniscate, 

>Conceptual and Geographical/physical field may be paralell planes, but in projective geometry "where infinity points are added to euclideean space" parallel lines do intersect at infinity. (think of a perspective drawing where rows of skyscrapers on parallel sides of the street convene where the sunsets and the road meets the skysunset.)
>> practice based --> iterative looping --> bring together fields fields brought together by iteration through theory and praxis : thus I weave, dance, or draw a thesis beyond the monochrome


by the an iteration through theory and practice, ad infinitum. 



infinity is a concept but through spatial practices - whether iterative drawing or walking - it takes form.

    RELATES TO LIMITS 
    limits, counter, conduct, transgression, negative space
    does ∞ symbolize limitlessness? what was it about coming into contact with limits? 

of perpetual motion
form itself is an unending wave 

it's a non-linear process which means 
picking start and end point --> arbitrary 

where to begin 
     -last winter - bubble, march -- negative space concept and constructive interference, may decision to do this as thesis though it was cartographic map based (open ended though) but even before undergrad thesis -- critical and creative cartography of pandemic including isolation psychogeography where i walked around in the woods. whole project was multi media website. 


"The bricoleur—as compared to, say, the scientist or engineer—is arguably less governed by an overarching awareness that they are embarked on a ‘project’, and that, correspondingly, they are performing in compliance with a clearly defined set of ‘aims’ or ‘objectives’. The idea that research might be conducted under conditions of aimlessness and without a clear objective in mind does not necessarily mean that it lacks the rigours of ‘accomplishment and execution’ but that much of what is fashioned in the process is contingent on factors that cannot always be foreseen. "

is why my output is intentionally non linear 
        Multiple navigations will be offered which guide the interlocutor through differing pathways amongst sections contained within the above groupings.
    also repetition of quotes places -- different ways they fit together 
        thesis not like a puzzle at all only one way everything fits together to produce an image, a map, a representation, rendering of my research. 
        no, this space is for your disoriented discovery. 
        have fun! i did:)


Deep mapping is geography in practice. I think *with* the field of my encounter as it unfolds for me. I am a process-oriented geographer who recognizes the journey, with all its detours, as a site of learning. Being lost is the beginning of exploration. Embracing the unknown unknown opens the deep-mapper-as-explorer to possibilities unlimited by expectation. To disoriented discovery.

My project is geography in/as/through practice

include 
"performative mapping" - cite lit
"performative cartography"
>>Immersive cartography (though maybe field? ach, all connected - talk about in ending here)

          
---------OTHER STUFF FOR OTHER PLACES-----------
DETOURS AND DIFFRACTION 
-----------
Detour 

        Later in the day I'm sitting outside with the same book, writing these musings from the _margins_ to html. A stranger approaches me and asks me, says I'm the only person he's seen today using a physical book. We get to talking. He's in his eighties, never travelled, says he talks instead to all sorts of people to build an understanding of the wider
        world. He offers me advice: something about detours being an important part of the journey. 
        
        Taking the 33 instead of the 99 B-Line to campus was a detour from my habitual route. I'd never taken the 33 before but it goes to show spontaneity (in my practical experience) is often met with serendipitous convergences. 

    //My commute is fieldwork. Process oriented research recognizes the journey as a site of learning (and knowledge production!).

    Detour Maps
         Construction at the intersection disorient familiar navigations. Re-orientation can only be established from looking around; from the city's map -- only further disorientation. 
   
Lost (v.) Losing
    I lost my initial project outline when my computer broke unexpectedly. For two months (October - November) I worked analogue and between a friend's computer and the public library. Finally buying a new device I learned I'd have to wait till January to recover scrivener files backed up (once, on a whim, call that spontaneous serendipity) to the cloud. Losing my outline and writings from the fall was disorienting. However, it allowed for the re-formation of my thoughts and the push to figure out a different way to organize my writing. Without this detour I wouldn't have thought to use a code editor to write, git to save and track changes, and GitHub to organize my text in process. 

    Getting lost as a practice--> solo
    (Bike ride on the north shore - feeling where the path was!)
    Slow scholarship (tkaes time sentence)

    Process-oriented research recognizes the journey is a site of learning. Being lost is the beginning of exploration.


    Like many colleagues, beginning a graduate program meant moving to a new city, biome, country. I arrived in Vancouver disoriented. As cartography marked sixty maps of downtown before I finally ventured there. Points, Lines, Polygon planes - memorizing contours blurb [insert paragraph from lecture I gave but the contents of which I lost to the cloud pending account recovery on january 9th.] While Google Maps helped me get from A to B, the drive to locate and coordinate precludes disoriented discovery.     

        "It seems as though in the end, maps —the successful ones, the ones that show us where we are and get us from here to there —risk offering only two alternatives. They let us see too much, and hence blind us to what we cannot see, imposing a quiet tyranny of orientation that erases the possibility of disoriented discovery, or they lose sight of all the other things that we ought to see. They omit, according to their conventions, those invisible lines of people, places, and networks that create the most common spaces we live in today." (Laura Kurgan, 16-17 from Close up and at a distance)


 ^^^  There are multiple ways to connect concepts, multiple pathways to understanding, multiple routes to a destination. 
   
  geographers site /fieldwork quote //enacting diff if talk research creation first
Deep mapping is geography in practice. I think *with* the field of my encounter as it unfolds for me. I am a process-oriented geographer who recognizes the journey, with all its detours, as a site of learning. Being lost is the beginning of exploration. Embracing the unknown unknown opens the deep-mapper-as-explorer to possibilities unlimited by expectation. To disoriented discovery.

Form(at)
Navigating my practice-based research output
connect to navigations of this space --> why its configured in this form and how to navigate it --

  The concept of Navigation Tuin and Verhoeff reference the writing of Paul Dourish on Embodied Interaction. 
    Navigating user interfaces. ---->   CAN CONNECT TO HOW TO NAVIGATE THIS SPACE


       Describe navigations for this space
        also repetition of quotes places -- different ways they fit together 
        thesis not like a puzzle at all only one way everything fits together to produce an image, a map, a representation, rendering of my research. 
        no, this space is for your disoriented discovery. 
        have fun! i did:)
kingsway disorients my grid of vancouver --> use this to connnect to ending dis. about navigating this site
      


      Process-oriented research recognizes the journey is a site of learning. Being lost is the beginning of exploration.


      Deep mapping as research-creation takes the form of a lemniscate.

From here:
>Constructive Interference with The Basemap
>Tactics
    >Rhythmanalysis, Derive
>on navigating HERE to (journey.txt)

---

chiasmus?


geography in theory is a practice but in practice a geography is but theory  