Some grey day last winter I walked the stretch of shoreline that wraps around the traditional, ancestral, unceded territory of the xʷməθkʷəy̓əm (Musqueam) First Nations. I am here because from where the sand turns dry begin the University Endowment Lands on which UBC campus is situated. With the Salish sea on one side and a forest of evergreens and sword ferns to the other, the university at which I am a graduate student is geographically and administratively separated from the city of Vancouver. The beach is the only spot on campus where I can think. A five minute walk from the Geography Department takes me to a zig-zag staircase at the bottom of which awaits a place where clothing is optional. My shoes and socks are the first to come off. The sand is cold and firm, yet porous. It holds the impression of my soles and reshapes in my hands. I contain it for a moment - appreciating the texture worn from time and force - then release it. How freeing to exist in a landscape with nothing (on) but the body.     

Sunshine was a precious thing my first winter in Vancouver when it rained for four months and the cloud cover was so dense that a dimple of white was the only indication our star remained. Monochrome days used to really kill my vibe. There’s a dullness to a landscape lit ambiently, a non-differentiation that makes it difficult to articulate thoughts. That day I paused at ocean’s edge where barnacles encrust the rocks and molluscs collect in crunchy bundles. In and out rolled the waves and I breathed with them. On each exhale I noticed how foam gathered around the rocks at my feet, forming bubbles on whose surface spun psychedelic spirals. This happens due to thin film interference, where light waves reflecting off the surface of a bubble are interfered with by waves which have been transmitted through the film, reflected back, and refracted at the surface at the angle of incidence. When refracted waves are shifted so as to be in-synch with those reflected, they interfere constructively to make visible an abundance of colors. [sketch reference diagram] Deep mapping is constructive interference 
with the superficial reflection that is the basemap. 

with the basemap b) with established forms of knowledge production c) with accepted ways of rendering research public 

Practical knowledge, Practice based, praxis based --> iterative loops -- spiral (deeper deeper --> counter conduct )
Mapping deeply requires the researcher to enter into dialogue with the field of inquiry. Off the page. In the everyday. 

My master's thesis commits (haha) a geography in practice, with place, on the ground from where I stand. 
from the ground where I stand. 
re-orientation to what geography can matter
to re-orient the field --> (to) a re-orientation of what it means to be a geographer doing geographyThis requires a re-orientation of what is geography in practice, in place, off-the-cartesian-grid, and on the ground where I stand. 

The importance of place is no secret to geographers, but of those whom I’ve met, few consider their everyday navigations as fieldwork. 
My aim is to 
re-orient the page by committing to a geography in practice, in place, off-grid, and on the ground where I stand. 


"_Spatial anthropology_ is an attempt to give a name to 
        the processes whereby the fundamental spatiality of being is woven into and from everyday practices, dispositions and experiential knowledge. To proceed on these terms - irrespective of disciplinary persuasion - is to understand and practice space as an existential ground of everyday being." (Roberts 30)

        Practice space --> geography in practice, in place, on the ground. We are all geographers, my aim for ____this degree? this project? the time it takes me?___ is to conduct  geography-research that..... 

The importance of place is no secret to geographers, but of those whom I’ve met, few consider their everyday navigations as fieldwork. My work responds (in method, form, and content <-- hit all three in following sentences) to the charge for praxis to extend beyond study and actually enact knowledge production differently (Narayan and Rosenman 2022). 
By thinking with place, I demonstrate a research methodology where the field is not a site separate from the desk at which geography is written. I {think with with place and so} assume the geographical field of my encounter as co-author. This endeaver emerges (sometimes seemingly of its own accord) from the iteration through theory and practice, each loop bringing me into deeper conversation with my conceptual and geographical field. Deep mapping is a praxis of intervention, of valorizing process, and of being open - open to sponteneity, serendipity, and the possibility of being transormed by the field entered. 

"Place impels me; it is the actor. Place unfurls around me; it becomes the subject." Maleea Acker in Lyric Geography (2019, 132)

cite spatial anthropology -->
"_Spatial anthropology_ is an attempt to give a name to the processes whereby the fundamental spatiality of being is woven into and from everyday practices, dispositions and experiential knowledge. To proceed on these terms - irrespective of disciplinary persuasion - is to understand and practice space as an existential ground of everyday being." (Roberts 30)

        Practice space --> geography in practice, in place, on the ground. We are all geographers, my aim for ____this degree? this project? the time it takes me?___ is to conduct  geography-research that..... 

if geographers study geography and geography is everything (as geographers say) then --> 

maybe address this in basemap section? 

Entering the landscape over and over - emerging and re-emerging - {this is the rhythm of deep mapping as research-creation, a process of weaving}{I weave} a (multi-modal, multi-dimensional, multi-media) ?cartography? beyond the monochrome. 

Deep mapping is not constitutive of a cartography itself but rather a capacious practice of situated, embodied, reflexive inhabitation. --> not flatten able -->

        "very little of what deep mappers are doing is in fact oriented towrads the production of maps so much as immersing themsevels in the warp and weft (OMG THIS WILL LEAD TO SENTENCE ON WEAVING A RHYTHM OF CARTOGRAPHIC PRAXIS BEYOND THE MONOCHROME) of a lived and fundamentally intersubjective spatiality."

MUST CLARIFY THAT not only does deeep mapping not constitute THIS THESIS DOESNT CONSTITUTE A COUNTER CARTOGRAPHY OR DEEP MAP OF VANCOUVER (way to talk about site briefly )
PRACTICE BASED --> MUST INCLUDE IN PROLOGUE ACTUALLY
USING CREATIVE PRACTICE TO GENERATE KNOWLEDGE
        THINKING WITH PLACE
        THATS WHY I ASSUME IT AS CO AUTHOER
though this site may be a digital cartography of sorts

from here:
>> the field
        expanding the field of cartography, or what that term means --> cartography is the art and science of map making --> but when used in sense of practice generally conceived of as the making of a 2D map
>> next: navigations
        a) navigations through conceptual field articulate a framework
        b) navigations through geographical field (city) develop cognative map (detour taking the 66)
        c) multiple navigations through this site

thoughts/outakes 
    can expand prologue to be more of an intro... //flesh out ("fleshiness" crouch? roberts?)
    >Thinking with place; feeling the city; assuming field as co-author
    >Would like to include aims here, flush out more
    >must i make stronger connection between constructive interference and moving beyond the monochrome - the flat, two dimensional?
    >Gleanings from my practice --? 
    >Thinking with place; feeling the city; assuming field as co-author
    >This endeavor emerges from an iteration through theory and practice - the rhythm of deep mapping as research-creation. 