Some grey day last winter I walked the stretch of shoreline that wraps around the traditional, ancestral, unceded territory of the xʷməθkʷəy̓əm (Musqueam) First Nations. I am here because from where the sand turns dry begin the University Endowment Lands on which UBC campus is situated. With the Salish sea on one side and a forest of evergreens and sword ferns to the other, the university at which I am a graduate student is geographically and administratively separated from the city of Vancouver. The beach is the only spot on campus where I can think. A five minute walk from the Geography Department takes me to a zig-zag staircase at the bottom of which awaits a place where clothing is optional. My shoes and socks are the first to come off. The sand is cold and firm, yet porous. It holds the shape of my soles and reshapes in my hands. I contain it for a moment - appreciating the texture worn from time and force - then release it. How freeing to exist in a landscape with nothing but the body.     
        
        {Sensorium is the initial mechanism by which I receive data from my surroundings. I walk the shoreline to feel something visceral. s/c/iting the body as reference.}

Sunshine was a precious thing my first winter here when it rained for four months and the cloud cover was so dense that a dimple of white was the only indication our star remained. Monochrome days used to really kill my vibe. There’s a dullness to a landscape lit ambiently, a non-differentiation that makes it difficult to articulate thoughts. That day I paused at ocean’s edge where barnacles encrust the rocks and molluscs collect in crunchy bundles. In and out rolled the waves and I breathed with them. On each exhale I noticed how foam gathered around the rocks at my feet, forming bubbles on whose surface spun psychedelic spirals. This happens due to thin film interference, where light waves reflecting off the surface of a bubble are interfered with by waves which have been transmitted through the film, reflected back, and refracted at the surface at the angle of incidence. When refracted waves emerging at the surface are shifted so as to be in-synch with those reflected, they interfere constructively to make visible an abundance of colors. [sketch reference diagram] Deep mapping is constructive interference with the superficial reflection that is the basemap. Deep mapping is not constitutive of a cartography itself but rather a capacious practice of situated, embodied, reflexive inhabitation. Mapping deeply requires the researcher to enter into dialogue with the field of inquiry. Off the page. In the everyday. 

The importance of place is no secret to geographers, but of those whom I’ve met, few consider their everyday navigations as fieldwork. My master's thesis responds (in method, form, and content) to the charge for praxis to extend beyond study and actually enact knowledge production differently (Narayan and Rosenman 2022). {What is contained within negative-spaces.github.io}{By thinking with place, I} demonstrates a research methodology where the field is not a site separate from the desk at which geography is written. I {think with with place and so} assume the geographical field of my encounter as co-author. This endeaver emerges (sometimes seemingly of its own accord) from the iteration through theory and practice, each loop bringing me into deeper conversation with my conceptual and geographical field. Deep mapping is a praxis of intervention, of valorizing process, and of being open - open to sponteneity, serendipity, and the possibility of being transormed by the field entered. 

"Place impels me; it is the actor. Place unfurls around me; it becomes the subject." Maleea Acker in Lyric Geography (2019, 132)

Entering the landscape over and over - emerging and re-emerging - {this is the rhythm of deep mapping as research-creation, a process of weaving}{I weave} a (multi-modal, multi-dimensional, multi-media) ?cartography? beyond the monochrome. 

MUST CLARIFY THAT THIS THESIS DOESNT CONSTITUTE A COUNTER CARTOGRAPHY OR DEEP MAP OF VANCOUVER
PRACTICE BASED --> MUST INCLUDE IN PROLOGUE ACTUALLY
USING CREATIVE PRACTICE TO GENERATE KNOWLEDGE
        THINKING WITH PLACE
        THATS WHY I ASSUME IT AS CO AUTHOER
though this site may be a digital cartography of sorts

from here:
>> the field
        expanding the field of cartography, or what that term means --> cartography is the art and science of map making --> but when used in sense of practice generally conceived of as the making of a 2D map
>> next: navigations
        a) navigations through conceptual field articulate a framework
        b) navigations through geographical field (city) develop cognative map (detour taking the 66)
        c) multiple navigations through this site

thoughts/outakes 
    can expand prologue to be more of an intro... //flesh out ("fleshiness" crouch? roberts?)
    >Thinking with place; feeling the city; assuming field as co-author
    >Would like to include aims here, flush out more
    >must i make stronger connection between constructive interference and moving beyond the monochrome - the flat, two dimensional?
    >Gleanings from my practice --? 
    >Thinking with place; feeling the city; assuming field as co-author
    >This endeavor emerges from an iteration through theory and practice - the rhythm of deep mapping as research-creation. 