DEEP MAPPING as CONSTRUCTIVE INTERFERENCE with ACCEPTED WAYS OF RENDERING RESEARCH 
    
Thoughts on rendering after talking to Q this morning: 

    (cartesian) maps render place by *reducing* the "fleshy," textural, and experiential to a flattened representation 
    
    to say such maps rend the material from the world in order to render (symbolize) it, however, perpetuates the notion that the symbolic and material are separable (can be separated, are intrinsically separate)

    how then might spatial praxes be rendered without being flattened, georeferenced, or vectorized? >>in other words, how do I render my practice based geography as a thesis "product" for evaluation (and institutional degree conferral) without submitting a linear PDF and a separate, creative work? 
    
    By working with git/GitHub and building an evolving space to contain & visualize my writing as well as mind maps, field notes, audio, visuals etc., I commit (get it) to process oriented research which resists privileging outcome over process. I integrate the two. 
        (The web-space will itself be a realm for the disoriented discovery of the gleanings from my practice of deep mapping. As mentioned in ./orientation.txt, From my iteration through theory and practice and by thinking with the (conceptual, geographical, institutional) fields of my encounter, I evolve my own interpretation of deep mapping that serves for now, for this project:    
            Deep mapping is a praxis of iterative intervention with the basemap, established forms of knowledge production, and accepted ways of rendering research public.) 
    This is how not only in content but *in form* my thesis responds to the charge for praxis to extend beyond study and actually enact knowledge production differently (Narayan and Rosenman 2022). 

    Yet enacting otherwise as a graduate student reveals a conflict in departmental messaging. On the UBC Geography website the "about" page declares:
        
         "We take an interdisciplinary approach to the study of the natural environment, and are committed to addressing the ongoing climate crisis through our teaching, research and practice. Our goal is cutting-edge research that matters and makes a difference, intellectually and practically." (geog.ubc.ca/about)

    As a discipline which awards degrees in both arts and science, geography is an inherently interdisciplinary field of study. But what does that actually look like within a department and amongst geographers? It "common knowledge" amongst UBC geography graduates that physical (grad) geographers and human (grad) geographers on the whole seldom interact socially (let alone engage collaboratively). Indeed, our offices are on separate floors. What does interdisciplinary mean in practice for geographers (graduate students and faculty alike)? Though my research draws from many disciplines, I argue is not simply interdisciplinary, but transdisciplinary. Polydisciplinamory even.
        
        "Traditional interdisciplinary, with its intertheory thrust, could be said to be about _who_ (which disciplines) one commits to, while research-creation, as a _polydisciplinamorous_ orientation, becomes about _how_ one commits to producing new kinship ties not only in terms of _content_ (the "who") but in terms of _form_ (the "how"). Natalie Loveless in her Manifesto for Research Creation (2019, 63)

    The MA graduate program overview insists on being "flexible, research-intensive, and student-driven" (geog.ubc.ca/graduate/masters-programs/ma-geography). Yet what happens for graduate students pursuing practice-based geography/research-creation endeavors like me when it comes time to submit 'the final thesis' to cIRcle, the submission platform contracted by UBC?   

    Well, as per upload instructions (https://bit.ly/3WyV6LE) the thesis must be formatted the following way:

      ubc_gradyear_gradmonth_lastname_firstname.pdf 

    Submitting a research "product" in any other (file) form(at) such as image, sound, or *interactive resource* is restricted to MFA students (https://bit.ly/3I827yk). Submitting as one's thesis a collection containing both text a non-text is for "CREATIVE ARTS ONLY" (capital letters signal caution on instructional website).

    How can practice based research be valued if a creative output, integrated together with text or separate, is not even viable for submission? The expectation that research process be rendered down into a distilled linear, text.pdf whereby process is relegated to the negative space of an outcome - to evaporated matter - is engrained in the system no matter the "flexibility" and "interdisciplinary" the program signals. What modes of making difference and what differences matter (enough) to the department become apparent when it comes time for research outcomes to be submitted for evaluation. As a graduate student, to enact otherwise - to produce knowledge differently - means risking not only legibility & intelligibility, but acceptance of one's research value by the institution at a juncture where degree rejection (potentially) excises you from academia. 
