TACTICS OF PRACTICE: deep mapping as interference with established forms of KNOWLEDGE PRODUCTION  
    
    concepts: Tactics, Bricolage, Gleaning, Informal Economies, Practical Knowledge, Experiential Knowledge, Embodied Knowledge, Situated Knowledge, Scale, Rhythmanalysis, Dérive, Computational Thinking, Toolkit


>Discuss things and then relate to deployment, tactic of deep mapping (in) the city-field, in research-creation (ND methods, process, organization, analogue methods), in web-field-site formation< 
    my field of deep mapping is unique to my navigations- the field emerges through the practicing. there are writings and accounts of practitioners, but you have to follow mentions, leap, connect, build framework that relates to you and your particular ways of operating and being

Tactics vs. strategies, 
    bricolage, methodological eclecticism (de Certeau; Kincheloe; Roberts)
        Certeau, Michel de. The Practice of Everyday Life. Translated by Steven Rendall. Berkeley: University of California Press, 1984.

        "I call a strategy the calculation (or manipula­ tion) of power relationships that becomes possible as soon as a subject with will and power (a business, an army, a city, a scientific institution) can be isolated. It postulates a place that can be delimited as its own and serve as the base from which relations with an exteriority composed of targets or threats (customers or competitors, enemies, the country sur­ rounding the city, objectives and objects of research, etc.) can be man­ aged. As in management, every "strategic" rationalization seeks first of all to distinguish its "own" place, that is, the place of its own power and will, from an "environment." A Cartesian attitude, if you wish: it is an effort to delimit one's own place in a world bewitched by the invisible powers of the Other." (35-36) Mastery of place over time. "The "proper" is a triumph of place over time." --> Proper nounification of city (connect to deleuze and guattari). Mastery of places by sight --> panoptic practice made possible (connect to rhythmanalyst who is more sensitive of times than of spaces, yet finds a bit of vantace offers optimal position for observing/sensing)

        --

        "a tactic is a calculated action determined by the absence of a proper locus. No delimitation of an exteriority, then, provides it with the condition neces­sary for autonomy. The space of a tactic is the space of the other. Thus it must play on and with a terrain imposed on it and organized by the law of a foreign power. It does not have the means to keep to itself, at a distance, in a position of withdrawal, foresight, and self-collection: it is a maneuver "within the enemy's field of vision," as von Bülow put it,14 and within enemy territory. It does not, therefore, have the options of plan­ ning general strategy and viewing the adversary as a whole within a district, visible, and objectifiable space. It operates in isolated actions, blow by blow. It takes advantage of "opportunities" and depends on them, being without any base where it could stockpile its winnings, build up its own position, and plan raids. What it wins it cannot keep. This nowhere gives a tactic mobility, to be sure, but a mobility that must accept the chance offerings of the moment, and seize on the wing the possibilities that offer themselves at any given moment. It must vigilantly make use of the cracks that particular conjunctions open in the surveil­ lance of the proprietary powers. It poaches in them. It creates surprises in them. It can be where it is least expected. It is a guileful ruse." (36-37)

        "...a tactic boldly juxtaposes diverse elements in order suddenly to produce a flash shedding a different light on the language of a place and to strike the hearer. Cross-cuts, fragments, cracks and lucky hits in the framework of a system, consumers' ways of operating are the practical equivalents of wit." (38-39)

        >LOCI - exteriority (tactics will come around again in discussion of negative space; transgression)
        >theory, constituted through practice, theory as praxis, practice, navigations constitute field of encounter, navigations are trajectories, without loci, tactics not tracings, trajectories, flash, illuminating negative space, problematizing oppositions, expanding the field by refocusing the field from within, 'eluding discipline without being outside the field in which it is exercised', transgression. 

    Bricolage, Making Do, Methodological Eclecticism
        Roberts, Les. “Spatial Bricolage: The Art of Poetically Making Do.” Humanities 7, no. 2 (June 2018): 43. 

        "gleaning as spatial praxis"

Gleaning, Informal Economies (Arthur; {Narayan and Rosenman; Gibson-Graham})
    Walking (residential) Alleys, shoes, outlet, giving (time) freely, indirect poaching

    Arthur, Mathew. “Four Alleys.” Society for Cultural Anthropology. Accessed December 17, 2022. https://culanth.org/fieldsights/series/four-alleys.

        “I survey the patternings of alley scenes to offer a speculative vocabulary for practicing the data of city life otherwise—each term an incitement to mess with instructions, to make space for the world to keep on.”

        “Walking alleys is not about transition, as if place could be stabilized by any easy mapping of movement from A to B. Nor is it meant to transgress method as usual. Rather, walking is “transcorporeal, transitive, and transspecies” (Springgay & Truman 2017)—it activates the ethics of being undifferentiably entangled in world. To walk as method is to contest processes of datafication while dramatizing what is noticed in order to tell stories that matter (Powell 2017).”

        “Alleys are a form of attention, where abandoned and jerry-rigged uses cue rhythms of material life that seem too much or not enough. They are out of sync with market logics, circulatory zones where thriftiness counts as care”
        “Property lines are breached with trash.” “The data of my alley walks refuse easy coding”
            Rhizome; overcoding; Alleys as rhizome; deep mapping data as rhizome itself 


Practical Knowledge (Scott)
    Scott, James. “Thin Simplifications and Practical Knowledge: Mētis.” In Seeing Like a State, 309–41. Yale University Press, 1998. https://yalebooks.yale.edu/9780300078152/seeing-like-a-state.

        "By themselves, the simplified rules can never generate a functioning community, city, or economy. Formal order, to be more explicit, is always and to some considerable degree parasitic on informal processes, which the formal scheme does not recognize, without which it could not exist, and which it alone cannot create or maintain." (310)

        "Each of these skills requires hand-eye coordination that comes with practice and a capacity to "read" the waves, the wind, or the road and to make the appropriate adjustments. One powerful indication that they all require metis is that they are exceptionally difficult to teach apart from engaging in the activity itself. One might imagine trying to write down explicit instructions on how to ride a bicycle, but one can scarcely imagine that such instructions would enable a novice to ride a bicycle on the first try. The maxim "Practice makes perfect" was devised for such activities as this, inasmuch as the continual, nearly imperceptible adjustments necessary for riding a bicycle are best learned by having to make them." (313)
                

            >sequence vs. timing<
            pattern observation
            accuracy vs. practicality 
                ("accuracy" of maps)
            concept of mētis
                "adapt to a constantly shifting situation" and "understand, and hence outwit... adversaries" (313) (Odysseus in deceiving the cyclops)
                >activities that especially engage metis require (313): 
                    practice in hand-eye coordination (me: juggling)
                    capacity to process incoming information ("read" waves, wind, road) and make appropriate adjustments
                    such activities are "exceptionally difficult to teach apart from engaging in the activity itself" --> deep mapping; learning as/thru doing (CCCH)
                    
                    "The necessarily implicit, experiential nature of metis seems central."(315)

                    "The practice and experience reflected in metis is almost always local." (317)
                gap b/w general knowledge and situated knowledge. (HARAWAY ON SITUATED KNOWLEDGES)
                    like tracing a screenshot of aerial google maps vancouver to get a sense of the city vs inhabiting it for a while
                    --> 2D flat map vs deep mapping practice --> how I give directions to people who ask now... or can drive around without maps
                    
            319: grammar vs speach, rule-of-thumb vs metis
                "use, trial, error" --> ITERATION
                Testing out, speech acts --> de certeau 

                practical knowledge/metis --> developed through iteration! YES

                "any formula that excludes or suppresses the experience, knowledge, and adaptability of metis risks incoherence and failure; learning to speak coherent sentences involves far more than merely learning the rules of grammar" (319)


ND; Computational Thinking 

    "The strength of these computations [tactics of making do] lies in their ability to divide, but this ana-lytical ability eliminates the possibility of representing the tactical trajectories which, according to their own criteria, select fragments taken from the vast ensembles of production in order to compose new stories with them." (1984, de Certeau 35)


Rhythmanalysis (Lefebvre); New Materialisms


Theory, Practice, Toolkit (Foucault and Deleuze)
    Foucault, Michel. “Intellectuals and Power: A Conversation between Michel Foucault and Gilles Deleuze.” In Language, Counter-Memory, Practice: Selected Essays and Interviews, edited by Donald Bouchard, translated by Donald Bouchard and Sherry Simon, 205–17. Ithaca, N.Y: Cornell University Press, 1977.

        Foucault: "... In this sense theory does not express, translate, or serve to apply practice: it is practice. But it is local and regional, as you said, and not totalising. This is a struggle against power, a struggle aimed at revealing and undermining power where it is most invisible and insidious. It is not to "awaken consciousness" that we struggle (the masses have been aware for some time that consciousness is a form of knowledge; and consciousness as the basis of subjectivity is a prerogative of the bourgeoisie), but to sap power, to take power; it is an activity conducted alongside those who struggle for power, and not their illumination from a safe distance. A "theory " is the regional system of this struggle."
        Deleuze "Precisely. A theory is exactly like a box of tools. It has nothing to do with the signi er. It must be useful. It must function. And not for itself. If no one uses it, beginning with the theoretician himself (who then ceases to be a theoretician), then the theory is worthless or the moment is inappropriate.... A theory does not totalise; it is an instrument for multiplication and it also multiplies itself."

    

Derive (Debord)



Tactics of deep mapping; Scale; Knowledge Production. Experiential, Embodied, Situated Knowledge



from here:
>>deep mapping as a tactic of transgression, of interference from within the field with x y z 
>>theory/practice, theory as practice, r-c, geohumanities, enacting otherwise








