
disOrientation
    learning through disorientation 
    my educational background in physical geography and GIS; 
    Moving here; TAing cartography;  
    Tyranny of orientation: Flat maps, Google Maps, Geographic Information Science 
        GIS - STS - Situated Knowledges 
        Multiple stories exist in the landscape, what do you see? (R-c stories drawn by, italo calvino's invisible cities) intertextuality
    Detours, Topology (GIS and mental map)
        Vignette: getting to wise 3 different ways, taking 33 bus 
    The city, performatively constituted through navigations as a physical-conceptual field of encounter 
    Research Creation --> Questions that set up a dialogue with the world, assuming the city, the field of my encounter as interlocutor
    Thinking *with* place, *feeling* the city

Thinking through Practice 
    Deep Mapping - situated embodied cohabitation 
        I explore and respond to these questions through deep mapping, a spatial practice of situated, embodied cohabitation through which I enter into dialogue with my surroundings. 
        empirics from practice inform each plateau, not separated

    Deep mapping does not counter cartography - not defined by opposition so much as through interference with ENGAGING/REPRESENTING PLACE, PRODUCING GEOGRAPHIC KNOWLEDGE, RENDERING SPATIAL RESEARCH PUBLIC. Spatial analysis that accounts for rhythms, knowledge formed by practices of everyday life. came to this theorization by Thinking Through Practice. 

    Spatial anthropology

        Accountability for positionality, exclusions, partiality of interpretation in conversation. locate work in negative space --> challenge choropleth mappings of place, boundaries, limits, transgressive knowledge production. 

        Relationship Anarchy -> "Build for the lovely unexpected" my orientation is that of slowing down, giving freely, and being open - open to spontaneity, serendipity, and the possibility of being transformed by the field. 
        Maleea acker quote, though problematise "subject". 
    

Interference
    Deep mapping is an orientation to geography research which recognizes, as Barad does, that “knowing, thinking, measuring, theorizing, and observing are material practices of intra-acting within and as part of the world” (Barad 2007, 90).

    Vignette: Bubble at wreck beach
        January 2022; First conception of deep mapping as (constructive) interference - stepping "into" the field as it were, diffracting, and interfering with superficial reflections (basemap) to produce a cartography beyond the monochrome 

    Deep mapping not counter-cartography - not in opposition to cartography, GIS. Not outside field. Interfering generatively within. 
    
    Situated knowledge --> commonalities and differences through dialogue, overlapping rhythms - constructive and destructive interference.

    Ideas, diffracting  - Frameworks, books, ways i read --> Thinking through practice (bridge) Frameworks, intertextuality
     
    Deep mapping as a 'diffractive apparatus' (Barad) - site and tactic for generating interference and studying how these patterns come to matter
    

Negative Space
    Krauss, expanded field through problematizing oppositions
    Vignette: Avoid the subject sticker on lampost in gastown - February 2022 during rhythmanalysis (before i knew of the book) at intersection as part of counter-cartographies 
    Alleys
    Negative space --> Transgression (Foucault)
    eluding discipline from within the field (de certeau)

Tactics
    GIS strategy(jon goss) vs Deep mapping tactics 
    Gleaning, Bricolage, Making do: What are tactics? My tactics?
        talk about my fieldwork! 
    Practical knowledge (James Scott, metis)
    ND - pattern recognition, Computational Thinking (GIS) 
    Analogue methods
    Slow Scholarship

Rhythmanalysis
    Rhythm exceeds measure, monday night runners vignette 
    Roberts - marooning - so cool!!!! 
    Bridge - feeling the city - bodily boundaries, de certeau on bridge
    time geography - allen pred

Rendering
    Research creation: the rhythm of deep mapping  
    lemniscate  - rhythm of research creation 
    form drawing: diffracting practices, situating practice
    Linearity, A-->B, flatness, pdf
    Site - ATP 
    Projections, geoid, distortions, approximations
    - distortion of different attriubtes minimized FOR nav. PURPOSES etc. --> cartographers SELECT Projection

Superposition
    Theory as Praxis
    Theory and practice, toolbox (tactics) (Deleuze and Foucault)
    its all the field (ex. conference, symposium)
    this site, its form and formation, site and tactic of dm, praxis
    inseparability of "self" from research practice 
    

Toolkit 
    methods
Field Notes
Process Commonplace 